README.md, before:

# Process-based lake modeling in R using GLM (General Lake Model)
<a href="url"><img src="GLM_hex.png" align="right" height="220" width="220" ></a>

-----

:busts_in_silhouette: Robert Ladwig, Aryan Adhlakha, Hilary Dugan & Paul Hanson    
:computer: [Material](https://github.com/robertladwig/GLM_workshop)  
:email: [Questions?](mailto:rladwig2@wisc.edu)

-----

## Description

This workshop material applies the lake model GLM to a real-world case, e.g. model calibration, output post-processing and interpreting water quality results. This workshop is intended for all skill levels, although prior knowledge of R is helpful.

## What will this workshop material cover?

  - Running GLM in R
  - Manipulating the configuration files
  - Visualising the results
  - Calibrating water temp. and oxygen parameters
  - Checking your phytoplankton

## Prerequisites

### Word of caution
This workshop example was tested on General Lake Model (GLM) Version 3.1.0b1. The setup may not work using older and more recent versions of GLM.

There are two paths to follow the workshop examples:
  ### 1. Use Github and your local R setup
  Clone or download files from this [Github repository](https://github.com/robertladwig/GLM_workshop).
  You’ll need R (version >= 3.5), preferably a GUI of your choice (e.g., Rstudio) and these packages:
  ```
  require(devtools)
  devtools::install_github("GLEON/GLM3r", ref = "GLMv.3.1.0a3")
  devtools::install_github("hdugan/glmtools", ref = "ggplot_overhaul")
  install.packages("rLakeAnalyzer")
  install.packages("tidyverse")
  ```
  ### 2. Use Docker
  To be sure that all the examples will *work* during the workshop, you can use a [container](https://hub.docker.com/r/hydrobert/glm-workshop) of all the material. I'll quote the Docker website here:
  > "A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. A Docker container image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an application: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries and settings."

  You can install the Docker software from [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/). Once installed, you'll need to open a terminal and type (the pulling will take some time depending on your internet connection, it's 3.87 Gb big)
  ```
  docker pull hydrobert/glm-workshop
  docker run --rm -d  -p 8000:8000 -e ROOT=TRUE -e PASSWORD=password hydrobert/glm-workshop:latest
  ```
  Then, open any web browser and type ‘localhost:8000’ and input user: rstudio, and password: password. Rstudio will open up with the script and data available in the file window.
  
  After you have finished the workshop examples, you can close the docker application by running
  ```
  docker kill $(docker ps -q)
  docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)
  ```

-----

Commit message:

workshop material update, headers in script, detailed descriptions in readme

README.md, after:

# Process-based lake modeling in R using GLM (General Lake Model)
<a href="url"><img src="GLM_hex.png" align="right" height="220" width="220" ></a>

-----

:busts_in_silhouette: Robert Ladwig, Aryan Adhlakha, Hilary Dugan & Paul Hanson    
:computer: [Material](https://github.com/robertladwig/GLM_workshop)  
:email: [Questions?](mailto:rladwig2@wisc.edu)

-----

## Description

This workshop material applies the lake model GLM to a real-world case, e.g. model calibration, output post-processing and interpreting water quality results. This workshop is intended for all skill levels, although prior knowledge of R is helpful.

## What will this workshop material cover?

  - Running GLM in R
  - Manipulating the configuration files
  - Visualising the results
  - Calibrating water temp. and oxygen parameters
  - Checking your phytoplankton

## Prerequisites

### Word of caution
This workshop example was tested on General Lake Model (GLM) Version 3.1.0b1. The setup may not work using older and more recent versions of GLM.

There are two paths to follow the workshop examples:
  ### 1. Use Github and your local R setup
  Clone or download files from this [Github repository](https://github.com/robertladwig/GLM_workshop) (click the green "Code" button and select the "Clone" or "Download ZIP" option).
  You’ll need R (version >= 3.5), preferably a GUI of your choice (e.g., Rstudio) and these packages:
  ```
  require(devtools)
  devtools::install_github("GLEON/GLM3r", ref = "GLMv.3.1.0a3")
  devtools::install_github("hdugan/glmtools", ref = "ggplot_overhaul")
  install.packages("rLakeAnalyzer")
  install.packages("tidyverse")
  ```
  ### 2. Use Docker
  To be sure that all the examples will *work* during the workshop, you can use a [container](https://hub.docker.com/r/hydrobert/glm-workshop) of all the material. I'll quote the Docker website here:
  > "A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. A Docker container image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an application: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries and settings."

  You can install the Docker software from [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/). Once installed and started, you'll need to open a terminal and type (the pulling will take some time depending on your internet connection, it's 3.87 Gb big)
  ```
  docker pull hydrobert/glm-workshop
  docker run --rm -d  -p 8000:8000 -e ROOT=TRUE -e PASSWORD=password hydrobert/glm-workshop:latest
  ```
  Then, open any web browser and type ‘localhost:8000’ and input user: rstudio, and password: password. Rstudio will open up with the script and data available in the file window.

  After you have finished the workshop examples, you can close the docker application by running
  ```
  docker kill $(docker ps -q)
  docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)
  ```
  If you want to deinstall the docker after the workshop, check the docker IMAGE ID by typing:
  ```
  docker images -a
  ```
  and remove the container by exchanging "IMAGE ID" with the actual one next to your "hydrobert/glm-workshop" container:
  ```
  docker rmi "IMAGE ID"
  ```
-----
